README.md, before:

_This app has been deprecated. See the newer version of this app at_ [Student Activity V2](https://github.com/ibnumalik/student-activity-v2)

---

# Student Activity App

This app was built to learn how to use PHP from scratch as backend language. It was a good learning experience and now I know it's easier to just use framework to speed up the development time. Another learning experience from this project is to use Angular.js with Typescript and create a build tools for that purpose.

Features in this app will be freezed and new features will only be added at the new version of this application - **student activity v2**. Please refer the new version to find out more about new feature.

## Features

- Students can rent a parking space
- View their seminar schedule
- Order result transcript from their institution.

<sub>This app was built to practice my Angular.js knowledge.</sub>

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

Before you can run this app, you need several things installed.

1. Node.js with yarn installed.

   1.1. Go through the [official website](https://nodejs.org/en/) to install Node.js.

   1.2. Visit [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) to install the binary.

   1.3. If you have installed it then check whether it is properly installed using this command.

   ```shell
   $ node -v
   $ yarn -v
   ```

2. Docker

   2.1. Download Docker [here](https://www.docker.com/community-edition) and make sure to follow the guide, as it will install `docker-compose` too.

   2.2. If you go through the official guide of installation, then you probably have run the `hello-world` example. But, if still in doubt whether Docker properly installed or not just run this command to check.

   ```
   $ docker --version
   $ docker-compose --version
   ```

### Installing

Alright, here we go. Let's install our app and get started!

1. First step is to clone this project.

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/ibnumalik/Student-Activity.git my-project
   ```

2. Change directory to the cloned project.

   ```
   cd /path/to/my-project
   ```

   2.1. Install front end dependencies

   ```
   yarn
   ```

   2.2. Duplicate `.env.example` file to `.env` file.

   2.3. Start docker in background.

   ```
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

### Starting development

To start development server and see how it run

```
yarn dev
```

The server will run on port `8008`. Open `http://localhost:8008` on your browser.

## Built With

**Front End**

- Angular.js
- Angular Material
- TypeScript
- Webpack

**Back End**

- Docker
- Nginx
- PHP
- SQLite

## Issues

- Sometimes there is problem saving data to SQLite due to permission issues. For the time being the workaround is to change the permission to 777.
- It may have to do with the owner of the files.

```
chmod 777 database/portal.db
```

## Todo

- [x] Separate HTTP call in component to service
- [ ] Upgrade ng-annotate-loader to babel-plugin-angularjs-annotate
- [ ] Simplify dev setup. Maybe just run docker compose up and everything is set up?

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Add instruction to open domain from env

README.md, after:

_This app has been deprecated. See the newer version of this app at_ [Student Activity V2](https://github.com/ibnumalik/student-activity-v2)

---

# Student Activity App

This app was built to learn how to use PHP from scratch as backend language. It was a good learning experience and now I know it's easier to just use framework to speed up the development time. Another learning experience from this project is to use Angular.js with Typescript and create a build tools for that purpose.

Features in this app will be freezed and new features will only be added at the new version of this application - **student activity v2**. Please refer the new version to find out more about new feature.

## Features

- Students can rent a parking space
- View their seminar schedule
- Order result transcript from their institution.

<sub>This app was built to practice my Angular.js knowledge.</sub>

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

Before you can run this app, you need several things installed.

1. Node.js with yarn installed.

   1.1. Go through the [official website](https://nodejs.org/en/) to install Node.js.

   1.2. Visit [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) to install the binary.

   1.3. If you have installed it then check whether it is properly installed using this command.

   ```shell
   $ node -v
   $ yarn -v
   ```

2. Docker

   2.1. Download Docker [here](https://www.docker.com/community-edition) and make sure to follow the guide, as it will install `docker-compose` too.

   2.2. If you go through the official guide of installation, then you probably have run the `hello-world` example. But, if still in doubt whether Docker properly installed or not just run this command to check.

   ```
   $ docker --version
   $ docker-compose --version
   ```

### Installing

Alright, here we go. Let's install our app and get started!

1. First step is to clone this project.

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/ibnumalik/Student-Activity.git my-project
   ```

2. Change directory to the cloned project.

   ```
   cd /path/to/my-project
   ```

   2.1. Install front end dependencies

   ```
   yarn
   ```

   2.2. Duplicate `.env.example` file to `.env` file.

   2.3. Start docker in background.

   ```
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. Generate front end assets.

```
yarn production
```

4. Visit domain that you have set up in the .env file.

### Starting development

To start development server and see how it run

```
yarn dev
```

The server will run on port `8008`. Open `http://localhost:8008` on your browser.

## Built With

**Front End**

- Angular.js
- Angular Material
- TypeScript
- Webpack

**Back End**

- Docker
- Nginx
- PHP
- SQLite

## Issues

- Sometimes there is problem saving data to SQLite due to permission issues. For the time being the workaround is to change the permission to 777.
- It may have to do with the owner of the files.

```
chmod 777 database/portal.db
```

## Todo

- [x] Separate HTTP call in component to service
- [ ] Upgrade ng-annotate-loader to babel-plugin-angularjs-annotate
- [ ] Simplify dev setup. Maybe just run docker compose up and everything is set up?

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
